# Link: "Glenn Greenwald, the Bane of Their Resistance"

[Very interesting and nuanced look at Glenn Greenwald.](https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2018/09/03/glenn-greenwald-the-bane-of-their-resistance) I respect his disdain for the status quo of American political institutions, but I also dislike how dangerous his methods of presentation seem considering that his audiences on Twitter and Fox "News" apply less nuance and perspective than he does. Given this, I quite enjoyed Ian Parker's profile.

I agree with the need to be skeptical when there's clearly an urge to blame everything on Russia. I also think there's a lot of evidence of collusion and corruption on Trump's part. I do agree that there's plenty of power abuse on the left and the right in the US, but both-sides-ism masks the very real and unique threats Trump brings—certainly, he's disrupting the existing shitfest but only by pouring out his own stinkier diarrhea dump. And yes, much of this is the same brand of terror the US has unleashed upon other nations before, but I don't like it when we do it either. And if we return to a post-Trump state of "normal" it is unfortunate that the Democratic Party will revert to its usual shitty ways. But because they are still so much less shitty than the other mainstream options, just tearing everybody down with both-sides-ism when the worse side has a strong grip without also putting twice as much effort into promoting real left wing candidates and policies is just rolling dice. In our two party system, criticising your own side inherently means promoting the other unless you can put forward the direction your side should take.